[MUSIC]
We'll talk about what a domain name is and
how a domain name is used
to get an IP address.
So a host names and
domain names, each host on
the internet has a unique IP address.
For instance,
the one I'm showing right there.
So, that's unique, supposed to be.
Now, IP addresses are needed
to send messages, right, so
if you want to send a message to a host,
you need his IP address, and
the IP address is included in the IP
header of the package that's being sent.
The IP addresses, though,
are not easy for humans to memorize.
We don't memorize numbers that well.
Some of these numbers, I do,
I do remember some IP addresses actually.
When I was a kid, I used to
remember IP addresses all the time.
Now, it's a pain to remember all the IP
addresses that you might want to access,
so we use domain names instead.
Pseudonyms.
So ics.uci.edu, or cnn.com,
something like that.
Humans can memorize that.
So in order to send a message each
domain name that the human knows must
be translated into, has to be resolved,
into an IP address to send the packets.
So the human types in the domain name,
and then that has to automatically
get converted into an IP address
that can be included in the packet
header and the message can be sent.
So, for that we use what's called
domain naming system, DNS.
So DNS is basically a big hierarchical
naming system to determine IP addresses.
So basically imagine a gigantic table,
imagine a big table that maps
domain name to IP address.
Now there isn't just one table because
this is worldwide network, right.
So it's actually a hierarchy of tables in
different machines across the world okay.
And it's a range,
it's not that complicated we're not going
to go into the details of the protocol.
But the idea is that when
you at you're machine,
you want to go to a web page, say cnn.com.
That cnn.com has to get converted
to the IP address of cnn.com so
you perform what's called a DNS lookup.
So now, when I say you perform,
your web browser performs this.
Your web browser sends a message
to a DNS server and says,
look, what is the address of cnn.com?
And if this Domain Name Server,
this DNS server knows that address,
it sends it back to you,
sends the IP address back to you.
If it doesn't, then it goes and
asks another DNS server higher up.
It says look, do you know where to
find this, where this IP address is?
And if it knows, it sends it back.
If it doesn't,
it asks another DNS server and so on.
Eventually you get to
the top level DNS server and
that will be able to find any address.
But that system,
we won't go into the details, but
there is what's called the process
of a DNS lookup where your machine
sends out a request to say look, for
this domain name, what is the IP address?
And eventually it gets
the IP address back.
So that's the DNS lookup.
And that has to happen every time,
at least the first time, every time you
go to a domain name that has to happen.
Now for performance reasons you don't
want to do this DNS Lookup every time you
go to a website if you can help it.
So if I go to cnn.com once,
rather than looking it up
every time I type in cnn.com It
stores it in a cache, a local memory.
It stores that address in local memory,
and so
that the next time I go to cnn.com
it doesn't have to look it up again.
So that saves time, performance wise.
But, this DNS Lookup has
to happen at least once.
So this DNS lookup usually perform by your
tools, by your web browser let's say.
Behind the scenes,
you don't have to do it manually, but
you can do it manually on a Linux
box just to see how it works.
So you can use, let's called nslookup,
so if you go to your raspberrypi or
any Linux box and you type nslookup and
you give a domain name, like here.
nslookup www.google.com.
So we see some data here.
First, you see server and address.
So what that's telling you
is where the DNS server is.
So what that means is,
whatever domain you're in
there's a DNS server associated
with your domain, right.
Now, there's a default DNS server, or
you can specify it if you wanted to.
But I didn't specify it,
this is my default for my domain.
The server's address is 192.168.1.1, and
see where it says address,
it's the same IP address.
Then it's just pound sign 53, so
that pound sign 53 is the port number.
53 is a port number associated with DNS.
So if I want to do a DNS
look up from my machine,
I have to go to 192.168.1.1 and
port number 53.
I go to that machine at that port and
there's a DNS server waiting there
to receive my lookup request.
So that's where the server is, but then
where Google is, you see at the bottom.
Name, google.com, address, blah.
So that tells you at least
where their outside server is.
So, it performs a lookup and it gives
me the answer and it prints it to me.
So you can do that
manually if you want to.
When I say back in the old days I used to
memorize IP addresses In the old days.
Back when I was an undergrad, the network
wasn't as necessarily reliable as it is
now, and the server itself might be down.
So there would be times
I would try to connect.
This is pre-web before Internet.
Not before Internet,
but before you had web browsers,
before you had the web at all.
But say I want to connect it to
an email or something like this.
When you want to connect you give a domain
name and it has to first do a lookup to
the domain name server, but if somehow
your connectivity to the domain name
server was down then you couldn't connect
to wherever your actual destination was.
Just because the domain name server was
down you couldn't get the IP address.
So sometimes it was useful to memorize the
IP addresses so that you could just type
that in and not bother with
the name saver server connection.
So if the domain server was down you
could still make your connection.
So for that reason,
people memorized some addresses.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]